Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered Video.
Now,
this question is from prescient pressure notice something that I've never noticed.
In the last video,
we have a look at how to create a dependent drop down list from a primary dropped enlist.
So here we have five categories we have main category on the data is this we have
subcategory one.
So category 23 on before they're what Prashant had done.
Let me just go to name Manager.
He had set up his dependent drop down lists as dynamic named Rangers.
Now,
I've only sets up number one here just so I can show you why it is so we have the main
categories a dynamic named range which,
if I click in here,
you can see is going to be this status that just here.
And if I click on this on D do the same thing,
you can see that this is our second dynamic named range.
But look what happens in here when subcategory,
oneness picks and we go through the same process that we went through previously.
You say data validation,
data validation equals list.
Then we used the indirect function to point to sell G two.
So we're gonna say in direct open brackets point to G to closer brackets and hit.
Enter on.
There you go.
The source currently evaluates to an error.
Do you want to continue now?
The reason for that is you cannot have a dependent drop down list Looking at a dynamic
named range.
If these were static name ranges,
that would be fine.
But there is a way to work around this.
So your dependent drop down lists,
your subcategory 123 and four can still be dynamic.
You just cannot use a dynamic named range to do it.
So what we're gonna have to do is write formula and use it directly in the data validation
.
So here's how you do it.
We're going to use a lot of things that we've used before and we go introduce something I'm
not sure we've covered in the course,
which is the C H a r,
which is the character function.
So I'm just going to step you through these.
The first thing we want to do is we want want to find out where subcategory one lives in a
row one and for that we're going to use the match function so we have match.
Look at the value in G to look it.
Look at one toe one,
which is Row one comma zero,
which is return an exact match,
and we can see some.
Category one lives at Position 12 in Row one,
So that's where we get out to now.
The next thing is the C H a r.
The character function now the character function.
Basically,
if you look at your keyboard,
every every symbol,
every letter,
every number,
the you can see has an ask a character that's the American Standard Code for Information,
Interchange and Excel.
Abbreviate that to the C H a R.
Now what we want to actually get to are the column letters.
So if we said C H a r 64 well,
actually,
if you said 65 we would get toe A,
which is our first column later.
But when we use in our match function,
we want to add to the character number.
So if we said a plus one,
if we said if we started with character 64 we will get to a when we add one because we're
gonna add to to carry to 64.
We're going to get to character 60 five at Sorry 66.
I can't do basic maths,
which is be on subcategory one lives in column B.
So we're going to use the match function to determine determine how many we add to 64.
And in this instance,
it's going to be too.
So using that,
combining those two together,
we're going to say CO 2 64 which I think is the at symbol,
plus the number we return from matching G two in Row.
One exact match,
which we know from here is to so 64 plus two gives us be,
which is the column that are category one lives in.
The next thing we're gonna do is we're gonna take that formula on.
We're just going to use it a couple of times and build a string that say's BB.
So we're going to use that formula.
The ampersand quotes,
Cohen quotes.
That's going to give us our separator,
Andi,
and we're going to repeat the formula again.
So we get the string B two B.
Now What we want to do is we want to find out how many values we should be looking at.
Ah,
height in column B.
So what we're gonna do is take that formula,
which is here.
We're going to use the indirect function which we've looked at,
which is going to tell Excel that we're actually looking at a range on the spreadsheet and
we're going to use the Count A which is going to return to four.
If we looked at B B,
as you can see down here because we also have the head in and we actually want to subtract
one from that because the data range itself is not the heading,
it's the three Bellow.
So that's where we get out three from.
Okay,
they're just to recap on the syntax of the dynamic named Range is what we have is offset
Start point rows away.
Columnist away the height of the data range in the width of the data range.
So just to quickly run through that,
we're gonna have an offset starting it a 11 road down,
however many rows away that we find subcategory warm,
which is going to be here,
and the next thing we knew need to do is work out the height,
which we're going to use.
The formula that we just looked at the count A of the indirect minus one.
So that's going to give us a date.
A height of three and Hamli columns wide.
We want to go where we just want to go.
One column white because that is all we're looking for.
So this is what the formula will look like.
We'll have offset will begin it.
A one will move one road down,
which has put Mr Road to we use that match function to return the column that this lives in
.
Which is to that we're going to use the county in direct on that function where we looked
and built that string to say,
B b which is going to give us our height,
which is this.
And don't forget,
we subtract him one at the very end.
So we disregard in the category heading on.
We're just going to use one with a wits of one.
So all I'm going to do is copy that entire formula hits escape.
I'm gonna come to this cell,
and we're going to go through the process that we went through before data validation.
Data validation.
We are gonna allow list on this time.
We're gonna type equals and paste out formula.
Then when we hit enter,
we find that we do get a drop down box.
So subcategory one should display 11 12 and 13.
And when we hit that,
it's very small.
But you can see we have 11.
We have 12 on.
We have 13 because our dynamic part of the formula now lives in the data validation.
So just test that out.
If we choose subcategory two or three,
we should only have one option,
which is going to give us a lab.
Whatever.
Nice.
That teen has 13 I think a type 13 in there or mistyped a 31 year 31.
And if we pick subcategory to the writings really small on this new laptop of mine,
you can see that we get 21 21.
And if we chose the bottom option,
we get down to 24 24.
So there you go.
That's how you work around a le.
That's how we use a dependent drop down list when your ranges are dynamic.
But you cannot use a dynamic named range.
Just drop it straight into the doubt.
Data validation.
Okay,
as always.
Any questions do let me know,
and I'll see you in the next lecture.